There are a lots of
word embedding methods.
As time goes by, scientists
keep discovering
better methods that allow
us to capture more
and more meaning.
Let's dive in and take a look
at some of these methods.
Word2vec uses a
shallow neural network
to learn word embeddings.
It proposes two
model architectures,
continuous
bag-of-words, which is
a simple but efficient approach
that you will
implement this week.
The objective of the
model is to learn to
predict a missing word given
the surrounding words.
Continuous skip-gram, also
known as the skip-gram
with negative sampling,
which does the reverse of
the continuous
bag-of-words method.
The model learns to
predict the word
surrounding a given input word.
Global vectors or GloVe by
Stanford which involves
factorizing the logarithm of
the corpuses word
co-occurrence matrix,
which is similar to the count
matrix you've used before.
FastText by Facebook which
is based on the skip-gram model,
and takes into account
the structure of words by
representing words as an
n-gram of characters.
This enables the model to
support previously unseen words,
known as outer vocabulary words,
by inferring their
embedding from
the sequence of
characters they are made
of and the
corresponding sequences
that it was initially
trained on.
For example, it would create
similar embeddings for
kitty and kitten even if
it had never seen the
word kitty before,
as kitty and kitten are
made of similar
sequences of characters.
Another benefit of fastText
is that word embedding
vectors can be
averaged together to make
vector representations of
phrases and sentences.
Next up, some more sophisticated
modeling approaches.
These methods use advanced deep
neural network architectures to
refine the representation of the
words' meaning according
to their contexts.
In the previous models,
a given word always has
the same embedding.
In these more advanced models,
the words have
different embeddings
depending on their contexts.
This ad supports for
polysemy or words with
similar meanings,
such as the word plants,
which can refer to an
organism like a flower,
a factory, or which can be
an adverb with yet more
different meanings.
A few examples of
advanced models that
generates word
embeddings are birds
or Bidirectional
Encoder Representations
from Transformers by Google,
ELMo for embeddings
from language models by
the Allen Institute for AI or
GPT-2 or generative
pretraining 2 by OpenAI.
If you want to use
these advanced methods,
you can find off the shelf
pretrained models
on the Internet.
You can find you in these
models using your own corpus to
generate high-quality domain
specific word embeddings.
To recap, you now have
some tools in your
toolbox for creating
word embeddings including
some pretty sophisticated
new models.
That's nice. Up next,
I will introduce the
continuous bag-of-words model
that you'll be using for
this week's assignments.
You have now seen
a little history
of word embedding methods.
We went all the way from
word2vec to the latest
transformer methods.
Currently, transformers are
one of the most
advanced AI methods.